# Final_Project_Group5

The Rise of SPACs: During Covid, SPACs have become more popular. Since the vaccine released, which have been proven to be more successful (performing better in the market) -- IPOs or SPACs?

Hypothesis:

SPACs (Special Purpose Acquisition Corporations) are essentially shell corporations that form with the intention of purchasing a private corporation. It is an alternate method of taking a corporation public with less red tape than an IPO. The SPAC has existed for several decades, but has gained a great deal of attention lately. Despite the buzz around SPACs, they have generated less return for investors than IPOs because this alternate method of going public signals to markets some underlying issue in the company’s fiscal health.

# Analysis of the Data

There are plenty of reasons why a company would want to go public, a couple being: liquidity and raise funds and open channels for higher revenues in the future. An IPO stands for “Initial Public Offering” and it involves a journey of working with investors, risk assessors, underwriters, etc. to invest money into the company so it can be taken public. A SPAC stands for “Special Purpose Acquisition Company” which is a shell company that saves its money until it figures out what it wants to spend its money on. SPACs have becoming popular in more recent times as it costs less time and money for companies to go public. However, a SPAC has a time limit of one to two years to acquire a target company before it delists off the market and is forced to give back all the investor money. 

During Covid, SPACs have gained a lot of traction in terms of popularity.  To best address my hypothesis that states IPOs are more profitable compared to SPACs, I have chosen five companies that have IPO’ed and five SPACs, specifically in the Technology sector. The IPO companies I have chosen are Zoom, Moderna, CrowdStrike, DocuSign and Peloton. The SPACs I have chosen are Reinvent Technology Partners, Mason Industrial Technology, E.Merge Technology Acquisition Corp, ScION Tech Growth, and TPG Pace Tech Opportunities Corp. Below, you will find the their growth since over time since the vaccine got released to the general public in early 2021. 

In these graphs, we are comparing the Market Capitalization of these companies. Market Capitalization is the market value of a publicly traded company’s outstanding shares. Market cap is calculated by the share price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding. As you can see from both graphs, all ten companies have not had much growth in these past four months. However, the companies that IPO’ed have a higher Market Capitalization to begin with and have been quite steady throughout these months since the vaccine got released. SPACs have started with a lower Market Cap and have continued to stay in that low range. One of the SPACs even had a large fall in Market Cap in March. Although SPACs look to be profitable, IPOs have proven to be the safer and more profitable option in the long run. 
